# For TA
- The files containing the SQL code used for creating tables, constraints, stored procedures and trigger can be found at `~/backend/database/sql`.
- The functions that queries our database (such as searching for a class) which is used to provide data for our app is in `~/backend/database/db_functions.py` 
- Our REST APIs are implemented in `~/backend/database/main.py`

## Features implemented
- User can signup and login. The username gets stored in the database.
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`  and `~/frontend/src/components/login.js`  

- On the profile page, the user can add the courses that they took in the past. The courses will be added to CoursesTaken table
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`  and `~/frontend/src/components/profile.js` 

- User uploads their schedule. Our backend grabs the class numbers of the classes that they are currently taking and stores it in the UserSchedule table. When the user logs in again, the class schedules will be shown on the main page. **Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`  and `~/frontend/src/components/mainpage.js`

- On the main page, the user can view all the classes that they can take in their schedule's free slots. The following scenarios would cause a class to be ineligible:
    - The user has already taken the course.
    - The user is currently taking the course.
    - The user is missing prerequisites.
    - The user has taken an antirequisite.
    - The user is busy during the main lecture time.
    - The user is available during the main lecture time, but is busy during the related component time (like tutorials or tests).

The user can also add and remove classes from their schedule. A dialog will appear if the class has related components.
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`  and `~/frontend/src/components/mainpage.js` 

- On the classes page, the user can view all the available classes. They can filter their search by start time, end time, weekdays, subject and catalog number
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`, `~/frontend/src/components/classSearch.js`  and `~/frontend/src/components/classList.js` 

- On the courses page, the user can view all the courses that waterloo provides. They can filter their search by subject and catalog number
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`, `~/frontend/src/components/courseSearch.js`  and `~/frontend/src/components/courseList.js` 
 
- On the instructor page, the user can view all classes taught by a certain instructor.
**Files**: `~/backend/database/main.py`, `~/backend/database/db_functions.py`  and `~/frontend/src/components/instructorSearch.js`

## Generating the production dataset
The production dataset is generated by doing many calls to the uWaterloo OpenAPI. To populate our local databases, we run the code in `backend/database/scripts/populate_tables.py`, which executes the API calls in `backend/database/scripts/util_get_waterloo_data.py`. Here is a summary of the steps: 
1. Get 10 courses from each subject at /courses.
2. Get the course description for each course at /course/{course_id}.
3. Get all classes for each course at /courses/{subject}/{catalog_number}. For each class time associated with a class, insert into ClassTime.

# For Developers
## To test the app locally
The README.txt of the backend and frontend repo shows the instruction to run the app.

## Database Creation
The queries for creating tables are located in the file /backend/database/createtables.sql.
The backend app will execute that sql file which creates the tables for the SQL database.

## Database Population
Using Google Cloud Shell and MySQL, the commands in /backend/database/sql/sampledataset.sql are executed manually.

## How the Web app receives data from the SQL database
The backend grabs the data from SQL database in gcp (via sqlalchemy) and sends that data to the web app whenever the webapp executes a GET request to the backend API (on /courses route).
The App can also send data to the backend using POST requests that will be used to update the table such as for adding a new
user to AppUser

## Web App link
https://cs348-webapp10.appspot.com/
Note: currently this does not work because our free trial for GCP expired.

## Backend API link
https://cs348-database10.appspot.com/courses
Note: currently this does not work because our free trial for GCP expired.

## How to populate local database with sample data

### For connecting to local database:

### Steps: 
`brew install postgresql`

`pg_ctl -D /usr/local/var/postgres start && brew services start postgresql`

`psql postgres`

Our database name is schedulemaker, type in this when posgres started:

postgres=# `CREATE DATABASE schedulemaker`


#### To run scripts for local database:

### You can try this:
python3 ./database/scripts/execute_sql.py -f createtables -u yourUsername -p yourPassword

### To Populate all data into local database:
python3 ./database/scripts/populate_tables.py -u yourUsername -p yourPassword

### To Populate specific table into local database:
python3 ./database/scripts/populate_tables.py -t 'table_you_want_to_populate' -u yourUsername -p yourPassword
